XAU/USD Scalping Bot – Enhanced Strategy (v3)
1. Multi-Timeframe Confirmation
To reduce false signals, introduce a filter using the 5-minute (M5) chart to confirm trends before entering trades on the 1-minute (M1) chart.

Buy Condition: EMA(5) > EMA(20) on both M1 and M5

Sell Condition: EMA(5) < EMA(20) on both M1 and M5

This ensures broader trend alignment and enhances signal quality.

2. Adaptive Cooldown Between Trades
Introduce a cooldown mechanism that adjusts based on the result of the previous trade:

After a winning trade: wait 3 candles (minutes) before placing a new trade

After a losing trade: wait 10 candles (minutes) before placing a new trade

This helps prevent overtrading and mitigates emotional decisions.

3. ATR-Based Dynamic SL/TP (Updated)
Continue using the Average True Range (ATR) to dynamically set stop-loss and take-profit levels:

Stop Loss = ATR × 1.2

Take Profit = ATR × 1.8

This ensures the risk-reward ratio remains favorable while adapting to market volatility.

4. Signal Quality Scoring System
Implement a scoring system to evaluate the quality of a trade signal before execution:

+10 points if RSI is far from 50 (above 60 or below 40)

+15 points if ATR is above its 20-period moving average

+20 points if multi-timeframe confirmation (M1 and M5) is positive

✅ Only execute trades with a Signal Score ≥ 60

5. Market Volatility & Momentum Filter
To avoid unproductive trades in low-volatility markets:

Skip trading when the current ATR is below its 20-period average

Optionally integrate MACD Histogram to confirm directional momentum

This helps the bot remain active only during dynamic, high-potential periods.

6. Auto Pause Mode (Market Non-Responsive)
Introduce a logic to temporarily halt the bot during flat or uncertain market conditions:

If 3 consecutive signals are "NONE" → pause trading for 30 minutes

If no trades occur during the entire session → deactivate bot for the day

This prevents unnecessary trades and promotes discipline in unpredictable markets.

7. File Structure Updates (Additional Modules)
To support the added functionalities, update the project structure with dedicated modules:

bash
Copy
Edit
/xauusd_scalping_bot/
│
├── mtf_filter.py          # Multi-timeframe logic (M1 + M5)
├── cooldown_manager.py    # Trade cooldown logic
├── signal_evaluator.py    # Signal scoring system
├── volatility_filter.py   # ATR and momentum filter logic
├── pause_manager.py       # Auto-pause and resume logic
Each module should be cleanly separated, follow naming conventions, and contain unit-testable functions.

